= BasicNamedScopes

Basic named scopes for ActiveRecord. Propagates the parameters of the
find-method as named scopes, for easy reusability and prettier code.

Instead of writing:

  Post.all(:conditions => { :published => true }, :select => :title, :include => :author)

You can now write:

  Post.conditions(:published => true).select(:title).with(:author)

All named scopes are called the same, except for +:include+, which is now
called +:with+, because +include+ is a reserved method.

Reuse them by making class methods:

  class Post < ActiveRecord::Base

    def self.published
      conditions(:published => true)
    end

    def self.visible
      conditions(:visible => true)
    end

    def self.index
      published.visible
    end

  end

Also, the +all+-method is a named scope now, so you can chain after callling
all, for greater flexibility.

  Post.all.published

Arrays can be used as multple parameters too, sparing you some brackets.

  Post.with(:author, :comments).conditions("name LIKE ?", query)

The +read_only+ and +lock+ scopes default to true, but can be adjusted.

  Post.readonly         # => same as Post.all(:readonly => true)
  Post.readonly(false)  # => same as Post.all(:readonly => false)



== Why?

NamedScopes are really handy and they should play a more central theme in ActiveRecord.
While I heard that ActiveRecord 3 will support similar syntax, there is no reason to wait
any longer.

I find defining named scopes very ugly, especially when dealing with parameters.
Just compare the amount of curly braces!

  # Using normal named scope:
  named_scope :name_like, lambda { |query| { :conditions => ["name LIKE ?", query] } }

  # Using BasicNamedScopes
  def self.name_like(query)
    conditions("name LIKE ?", query)
  end

Also, regular named scopes don't support using other named scopes at all!

I found myself implementing (mostly conditions, but others too) so often, that
a little gem like this would be the obvious choice. Use it if a gem like
searchlogic is overkill for your needs.

== Installing

The gem is called "basic_named_scopes". You know how to install it.

  gem install basic_named_scopes

Use it in Rails:

  config.gem "basic_named_scopes"

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Iain Hecker. Released under the MIT License.
